
Literature Review 1 1st Quarter 2009
NAME _Dan Johnson_ , Per _3_

COMPUTER SYSTEMS RESEARCH
Fall/Spring 2009 - 2010
Background Literature Review for your project

Find an interesting project paper in your research area of interest.  A good source  is: http://portal.acm.org also http://arXiv.org from Cornell University search the Digital Library for a pdf of the paper. I can print the acm papers for you.  The Cornell papers are viewable by you.

1. Title: BIND 9 DNS Cache Poisoning

2. Abstract - describe in several sentences or detailed bullets the focus and goal of this research paper/project.

The paper shows that BIND 9 DNS queries are predictable - i.e. that the source UDP port and DNS transaction ID can be effectively predicted. A predictability algorithm is described that, in optimal conditions, provides very few guesses for the "next" query (10 in the basic attack, and 1 in the advanced attack), thereby overcoming whatever protection offered by the transaction ID mechanism. This enables a much more effective DNS cache poisoning than the currently known attacks against BIND 9. The net effect is that pharming attacks are feasible against BIND 9 caching DNS servers, without the need to directly attack neither DNS servers nor clients (PCs). The results are applicable to all BIND 9 releases, when BIND (the named daemon) is in caching DNS server configuration.

3. What is the analysis being done, how is the project tested and evaluated? What are the conclusions/results? Are there areas for continued research? (if this can be determined)

Analysis was done on the Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG) of the BING 9 caching nameserver that allows an attack on the results of the nameserver. This compromises security by returning incorrect IPs for well-known domains, essentially stealing traffic away from those webservers.

4.  If applicable, describe briefly how you can incorporate or reference any of this project, even as background information, in your own project.

My project will implement the DNS protocol, so I must be careful to keep these security considerations in mind with the design of my protocol. In a way, my protocol is not affected, as there is not Source of Authority to try to impersonate, but the basic problem of a poisoned nameserver is a real danger.
